src/content/blog/dropdown-usage-guide.mdx, before:

---
title: "Dropdown Component - Quick Usage Guide"
description: "Simple guide to using the Dropdown component in Astro MDX with examples and best practices"
date: 2025-10-22
tags: [astro, mdx, react, dropdown]
category: tutorial
---

import Dropdown, { DropdownOption, DropdownRef } from "@/react/Dropdown/Dropdown.jsx";
import Tabs, { TabItem } from "@/react/Tabs/Tabs.jsx";

# Dropdown Component - Quick Usage Guide

Dynamic dropdown component for Astro MDX that switches content based on user selection. Perfect for language translations, code examples, and documentation.

## 📦 Import the Components

```jsx
import Dropdown, { DropdownOption, DropdownRef } from "@/react/Dropdown/Dropdown.jsx";
// or use backward compatible import
import Dropdown, { Option, DropdownRef } from "@/react/Dropdown/Dropdown.jsx";
```
or with relative path:

```jsx
import Dropdown, { DropdownOption, DropdownRef } from "../../react/Dropdown/Dropdown.jsx";
```

## 🚀 Basic Usage

### Simple Dropdown

<Dropdown defaultValue="english" placeholder="Choose your language..." client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="english" label="🇬🇧 English">
    ## Welcome!
    
    This is the English content with full Markdown support.
    
    - Lists work
    - **Bold** and *italic* text
    - `code snippets`
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption value="spanish" label="🇪🇸 Español">
    ## ¡Bienvenido!
    
    Este es el contenido en español con soporte completo de Markdown.
    
    - Las listas funcionan
    - Texto en **negrita** y *cursiva*
    - `fragmentos de código`
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption value="french" label="🇫🇷 Français">
    ## Bienvenue!
    
    Ceci est le contenu en français avec support Markdown complet.
    
    - Les listes fonctionnent
    - Texte en **gras** et *italique*
    - `extraits de code`
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>

```jsx
<Dropdown defaultValue="english" placeholder="Choose your language..." client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="english" label="🇬🇧 English">
    ## Welcome!
    Your content here...
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption value="spanish" label="🇪🇸 Español">
    ## ¡Bienvenido!
    Tu contenido aquí...
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>
```

**Key Points:**
- Always include `client:load` for interactivity
- Each option needs unique `value` and `label`
- Full Markdown support inside options

---

## ⚙️ Component Props

### Dropdown Props

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `defaultValue` | string | First option | Which option to show initially |
| `placeholder` | string | "Select an option..." | Text shown before selection |
| `stripCss` | boolean | false | Remove background styling |
| `client:load` | directive | - | **Required** for Astro |

### DropdownOption Props

| Prop | Type | Required | Description |
|------|------|----------|-------------|
| `value` | string | Yes | Unique identifier |
| `label` | string | No | Display text (auto-generated if omitted) |
| `children` | content | Yes | Content to display |

---

## 🎯 Features & Examples

### 1. Default Value

Set which option shows first:

<Dropdown defaultValue="python" client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="javascript" label="JavaScript">
    ```js
    console.log("Hello from JavaScript!");
    ```
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption value="python" label="Python">
    ```py
    print("Hello from Python!")
    ```
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption value="ruby" label="Ruby">
    ```ruby
    puts "Hello from Ruby!"
    ```
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>

```jsx
<Dropdown defaultValue="python" client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="python" label="Python">
    Content...
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>
```

### 2. Custom Placeholder

<Dropdown placeholder="Pick your favorite framework..." client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="react" label="⚛️ React">
    React is a JavaScript library for building user interfaces.
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption value="vue" label="💚 Vue">
    Vue is a progressive framework for building user interfaces.
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption value="svelte" label="🧡 Svelte">
    Svelte is a radical new approach to building user interfaces.
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>

```jsx
<Dropdown placeholder="Pick your favorite framework..." client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="react" label="⚛️ React">
    Content...
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>
```

### 3. Auto-Generated Labels

When you omit the `label` prop, options get automatic names:

<Dropdown client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="opt1">
    ## First Option
    This automatically gets labeled as "Option 1"
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption value="opt2">
    ## Second Option
    This automatically gets labeled as "Option 2"
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption value="opt3">
    ## Third Option
    This automatically gets labeled as "Option 3"
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>

```jsx
<Dropdown client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="opt1">
    Content here... (becomes "Option 1")
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption value="opt2">
    Content here... (becomes "Option 2")
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>
```

When you omit both `label` & `value` props, options get automatic names:

<Dropdown client:load>
  <DropdownOption>
    ## First Option without value
    This automatically gets labeled as "Option 1"
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption>
    ## Second Option without value
    This automatically gets labeled as "Option 2"
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption>
    ## Third Option without value
    This automatically gets labeled as "Option 3"
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>

```jsx
<Dropdown client:load>
  <DropdownOption>
    Content here... (becomes "Option 1")
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption>
    Content here... (becomes "Option 2")
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>
```

**Note:** Only use auto-generated labels for prototyping. Always provide meaningful labels in production.

### 4. Strip CSS for Clean Look

Use `stripCss` to remove background styling - great for nesting components:

<Dropdown stripCss defaultValue="example" placeholder="Select example..." client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="example" label="Clean Example">
    ## No Background Box
    
    With `stripCss={true}`, the content appears without any background color, border, or padding.
    
    Perfect for when you want the content to blend with your page design.
    
    ```js
    const example = "Clean and minimal";
    ```
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption value="normal" label="CSS Stripped Example">
    ## Without Background
    
    This is how it looks without any styling (when stripCss is used).
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>

```jsx
<Dropdown stripCss client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="example" label="Example">
    Content without background box styling
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>
```

---

## 🔗 Reference Dropdown (DropdownRef)

For lengthy content, keep it organized by using references:

### Basic Reference Example

<Dropdown defaultValue=":::drop javascript-ref" placeholder="Select language..." client:load>
  <DropdownOption value=":::drop javascript-ref" label="JavaScript" />
  <DropdownOption value=":::drop python-ref" label="Python" />
  <DropdownOption value=":::drop typescript-ref" label="TypeScript" />
</Dropdown>

<DropdownRef type="drop" id="javascript-ref">
## JavaScript Complete Guide

JavaScript is a versatile programming language used for web development.

### Variables

```js title="variables.js" showLineNumbers
// Modern variable declarations
const API_KEY = "your-key-here";
let counter = 0;

// Arrow functions
const increment = () => counter++;

// Template literals
console.log(`Counter: ${counter}`);
```

### Functions

```js title="functions.js" showLineNumbers
// Function declaration
function greet(name) {
  return `Hello, ${name}!`;
}

// Arrow function
const greetArrow = (name) => `Hello, ${name}!`;

// Usage
console.log(greet("World"));
```

### Arrays & Objects

```js
const users = [
  { id: 1, name: "Alice" },
  { id: 2, name: "Bob" }
];

const filtered = users.filter(u => u.id > 1);
console.log(filtered);
```
</DropdownRef>

<DropdownRef type="drop" id="python-ref">
## Python Complete Guide

Python is a high-level, interpreted programming language known for its simplicity.

### Variables

```py title="variables.py" showLineNumbers
# Variable declarations
API_KEY = "your-key-here"
counter = 0

# Functions
def increment():
    global counter
    counter += 1

# String formatting
print(f"Counter: {counter}")
```

### Functions

```py title="functions.py" showLineNumbers
# Function definition
def greet(name):
    return f"Hello, {name}!"

# Lambda function
greet_lambda = lambda name: f"Hello, {name}!"

# Usage
print(greet("World"))
```

### Lists & Dictionaries

```py
users = [
    {"id": 1, "name": "Alice"},
    {"id": 2, "name": "Bob"}
]

filtered = [u for u in users if u["id"] > 1]
print(filtered)
```
</DropdownRef>

<DropdownRef type="drop" id="typescript-ref">
## TypeScript Complete Guide

TypeScript is a typed superset of JavaScript that compiles to plain JavaScript.

### Types & Interfaces

```ts title="types.ts" showLineNumbers
// Type annotations
const API_KEY: string = "your-key-here";
let counter: number = 0;

// Interface
interface User {
  id: number;
  name: string;
  email?: string; // Optional
}

// Function with types
const increment = (): void => {
  counter++;
};
```

### Functions

```ts title="functions.ts" showLineNumbers
// Typed function
function greet(name: string): string {
  return `Hello, ${name}!`;
}

// Arrow function with types
const greetArrow = (name: string): string => `Hello, ${name}!`;

// Generic function
function identity<T>(arg: T): T {
  return arg;
}
```

### Arrays & Objects

```ts
interface User {
  id: number;
  name: string;
}

const users: User[] = [
  { id: 1, name: "Alice" },
  { id: 2, name: "Bob" }
];

const filtered = users.filter((u: User) => u.id > 1);
```
</DropdownRef>

### How to Use References

**Step 1:** Define dropdown with reference pattern `:::drop <id>`

```jsx
<Dropdown defaultValue=":::drop javascript-ref" client:load>
  <DropdownOption value=":::drop javascript-ref" label="JavaScript" />
  <DropdownOption value=":::drop python-ref" label="Python" />
</Dropdown>
```

**Step 2:** Define content separately with `<DropdownRef>`

```jsx
<DropdownRef type="drop" id="javascript-ref">
  ## Your lengthy content here
  Multiple sections, code blocks, etc.
</DropdownRef>

<DropdownRef type="drop" id="python-ref">
  ## More lengthy content
  More sections, code blocks, etc.
</DropdownRef>
```

**Benefits:**
- ✅ Better organization for long content
- ✅ Easier to maintain and edit
- ✅ Cleaner dropdown definitions
- ✅ Perfect for extensive documentation

---

## ⚠️ Important Limitations

### React Components Inside Dropdown

**React components (like Tabs) may not work reliably inside dropdowns** due to how content is rendered.

<Dropdown stripCss defaultValue="tabs-inline" placeholder="Select example..." client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="tabs-inline" label="Tabs Inside (May Not Work)">
    <Tabs defaultValue="tab1" client:load>
      <TabItem value="tab1" label="Tab 1">
        ## First Tab
        This may not work properly after page reload.
      </TabItem>
      <TabItem value="tab2" label="Tab 2">
        ## Second Tab
        React interactivity might be lost.
      </TabItem>
    </Tabs>
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption value="markdown" label="Markdown (Works Fine)">
    ## Regular Markdown Content
    
    Static Markdown content works perfectly:
    
    - Lists
    - **Bold text**
    - `Code snippets`
    
    ```js
    console.log("Code blocks work great!");
    ```
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>

**What Works:**
- ✅ Markdown (text, lists, tables)
- ✅ Code blocks with syntax highlighting
- ✅ Images, links, quotes
- ✅ Static HTML content

**What May Not Work:**
- ⚠️ React Tabs component
- ⚠️ Custom React components with state
- ⚠️ Interactive elements requiring event handlers
- ⚠️ Any component using `client:load` inside dropdown

**Recommendation:** Use dropdowns primarily for static Markdown content and code examples. For complex interactive content, consider alternative layouts.

---

## 💡 Best Practices

### 1. When to Use Basic Dropdown

```jsx
// ✅ Good for short content (< 30 lines)
<Dropdown client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="opt1" label="Quick Example">
    Short content here...
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>
```

### 2. When to Use Reference Dropdown

```jsx
// ✅ Good for long content (> 30 lines)
<Dropdown client:load>
  <DropdownOption value=":::drop long-content" label="Documentation" />
</Dropdown>

<DropdownRef type="drop" id="long-content">
  Extensive documentation here...
  Multiple sections...
  Many code blocks...
</DropdownRef>
```

### 3. Provide Meaningful Labels

```jsx
// ❌ Bad
<DropdownOption value="a" label="A">

// ✅ Good
<DropdownOption value="javascript" label="🟨 JavaScript">
```

### 4. Use stripCss for Nested Content

```jsx
// ✅ Good for clean integration
<Dropdown stripCss client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="opt1" label="Clean Look">
    Content blends with page...
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>
```

---

## 📝 Quick Reference

### Basic Dropdown Template

```jsx
<Dropdown defaultValue="option1" placeholder="Select..." client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="option1" label="Option 1">
    Content for option 1
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption value="option2" label="Option 2">
    Content for option 2
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>
```

### Reference Dropdown Template

```jsx
<Dropdown defaultValue=":::drop ref1" placeholder="Select..." client:load>
  <DropdownOption value=":::drop ref1" label="First" />
  <DropdownOption value=":::drop ref2" label="Second" />
</Dropdown>

<DropdownRef type="drop" id="ref1">
  Content for first option
</DropdownRef>

<DropdownRef type="drop" id="ref2">
  Content for second option
</DropdownRef>
```

---

## 🎯 Summary

- ✅ Perfect for language translations and code examples
- ✅ Full Markdown and syntax highlighting support
- ✅ Auto theme switching (light/dark)
- ✅ Reference system for organizing long content
- ✅ `stripCss` prop for clean integration
- ⚠️ Use for static content only (React components may not work)

Start using dropdowns to create dynamic, multilingual content in your Astro blog! 🚀

Commit message:

correction in react component import

src/content/blog/dropdown-usage-guide.mdx, after:

---
title: "Dropdown Component - Quick Usage Guide"
description: "Simple guide to using the Dropdown component in Astro MDX with examples and best practices"
date: 2025-10-22
tags: [astro, mdx, react, dropdown]
category: tutorial
---

import Dropdown, { DropdownOption, DropdownRef } from "@/react/Dropdown/Dropdown.jsx";
import Tabs, { TabItem } from "@/react/Tabs/Tabs.jsx";

# Dropdown Component - Quick Usage Guide

Dynamic dropdown component for Astro MDX that switches content based on user selection. Perfect for language translations, code examples, and documentation.

## 📦 Import the Components

```jsx
import Dropdown, { DropdownOption, DropdownRef } from "@/react/Dropdown/Dropdown.jsx";
// or use backward compatible import
import Dropdown, { Option, DropdownRef } from "@/react/Dropdown/Dropdown.jsx";
```
or with relative path:

```jsx
import Dropdown, { DropdownOption, DropdownRef } from "../../react/Dropdown/Dropdown.jsx";
```

> **Important:** Use `.mdx` extension (not `.md`) when working with React components.

## 🚀 Basic Usage

### Simple Dropdown

<Dropdown defaultValue="english" placeholder="Choose your language..." client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="english" label="🇬🇧 English">
    ## Welcome!
    
    This is the English content with full Markdown support.
    
    - Lists work
    - **Bold** and *italic* text
    - `code snippets`
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption value="spanish" label="🇪🇸 Español">
    ## ¡Bienvenido!
    
    Este es el contenido en español con soporte completo de Markdown.
    
    - Las listas funcionan
    - Texto en **negrita** y *cursiva*
    - `fragmentos de código`
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption value="french" label="🇫🇷 Français">
    ## Bienvenue!
    
    Ceci est le contenu en français avec support Markdown complet.
    
    - Les listes fonctionnent
    - Texte en **gras** et *italique*
    - `extraits de code`
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>

```jsx
<Dropdown defaultValue="english" placeholder="Choose your language..." client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="english" label="🇬🇧 English">
    ## Welcome!
    Your content here...
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption value="spanish" label="🇪🇸 Español">
    ## ¡Bienvenido!
    Tu contenido aquí...
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>
```

**Key Points:**
- Always include `client:load` for interactivity
- Each option needs unique `value` and `label`
- Full Markdown support inside options

---

## ⚙️ Component Props

### Dropdown Props

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `defaultValue` | string | First option | Which option to show initially |
| `placeholder` | string | "Select an option..." | Text shown before selection |
| `stripCss` | boolean | false | Remove background styling |
| `client:load` | directive | - | **Required** for Astro |

### DropdownOption Props

| Prop | Type | Required | Description |
|------|------|----------|-------------|
| `value` | string | Yes | Unique identifier |
| `label` | string | No | Display text (auto-generated if omitted) |
| `children` | content | Yes | Content to display |

---

## 🎯 Features & Examples

### 1. Default Value

Set which option shows first:

<Dropdown defaultValue="python" client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="javascript" label="JavaScript">
    ```js
    console.log("Hello from JavaScript!");
    ```
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption value="python" label="Python">
    ```py
    print("Hello from Python!")
    ```
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption value="ruby" label="Ruby">
    ```ruby
    puts "Hello from Ruby!"
    ```
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>

```jsx
<Dropdown defaultValue="python" client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="python" label="Python">
    Content...
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>
```

### 2. Custom Placeholder

<Dropdown placeholder="Pick your favorite framework..." client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="react" label="⚛️ React">
    React is a JavaScript library for building user interfaces.
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption value="vue" label="💚 Vue">
    Vue is a progressive framework for building user interfaces.
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption value="svelte" label="🧡 Svelte">
    Svelte is a radical new approach to building user interfaces.
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>

```jsx
<Dropdown placeholder="Pick your favorite framework..." client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="react" label="⚛️ React">
    Content...
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>
```

### 3. Auto-Generated Labels

When you omit the `label` prop, options get automatic names:

<Dropdown client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="opt1">
    ## First Option
    This automatically gets labeled as "Option 1"
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption value="opt2">
    ## Second Option
    This automatically gets labeled as "Option 2"
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption value="opt3">
    ## Third Option
    This automatically gets labeled as "Option 3"
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>

```jsx
<Dropdown client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="opt1">
    Content here... (becomes "Option 1")
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption value="opt2">
    Content here... (becomes "Option 2")
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>
```

When you omit both `label` & `value` props, options get automatic names:

<Dropdown client:load>
  <DropdownOption>
    ## First Option without value
    This automatically gets labeled as "Option 1"
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption>
    ## Second Option without value
    This automatically gets labeled as "Option 2"
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption>
    ## Third Option without value
    This automatically gets labeled as "Option 3"
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>

```jsx
<Dropdown client:load>
  <DropdownOption>
    Content here... (becomes "Option 1")
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption>
    Content here... (becomes "Option 2")
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>
```

**Note:** Only use auto-generated labels for prototyping. Always provide meaningful labels in production.

### 4. Strip CSS for Clean Look

Use `stripCss` to remove background styling - great for nesting components:

<Dropdown stripCss defaultValue="example" placeholder="Select example..." client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="example" label="Clean Example">
    ## No Background Box
    
    With `stripCss={true}`, the content appears without any background color, border, or padding.
    
    Perfect for when you want the content to blend with your page design.
    
    ```js
    const example = "Clean and minimal";
    ```
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption value="normal" label="CSS Stripped Example">
    ## Without Background
    
    This is how it looks without any styling (when stripCss is used).
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>

```jsx
<Dropdown stripCss client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="example" label="Example">
    Content without background box styling
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>
```

---

## 🔗 Reference Dropdown (DropdownRef)

For lengthy content, keep it organized by using references:

### Basic Reference Example

<Dropdown defaultValue=":::drop javascript-ref" placeholder="Select language..." client:load>
  <DropdownOption value=":::drop javascript-ref" label="JavaScript" />
  <DropdownOption value=":::drop python-ref" label="Python" />
  <DropdownOption value=":::drop typescript-ref" label="TypeScript" />
</Dropdown>

<DropdownRef type="drop" id="javascript-ref">
## JavaScript Complete Guide

JavaScript is a versatile programming language used for web development.

### Variables

```js title="variables.js" showLineNumbers
// Modern variable declarations
const API_KEY = "your-key-here";
let counter = 0;

// Arrow functions
const increment = () => counter++;

// Template literals
console.log(`Counter: ${counter}`);
```

### Functions

```js title="functions.js" showLineNumbers
// Function declaration
function greet(name) {
  return `Hello, ${name}!`;
}

// Arrow function
const greetArrow = (name) => `Hello, ${name}!`;

// Usage
console.log(greet("World"));
```

### Arrays & Objects

```js
const users = [
  { id: 1, name: "Alice" },
  { id: 2, name: "Bob" }
];

const filtered = users.filter(u => u.id > 1);
console.log(filtered);
```
</DropdownRef>

<DropdownRef type="drop" id="python-ref">
## Python Complete Guide

Python is a high-level, interpreted programming language known for its simplicity.

### Variables

```py title="variables.py" showLineNumbers
# Variable declarations
API_KEY = "your-key-here"
counter = 0

# Functions
def increment():
    global counter
    counter += 1

# String formatting
print(f"Counter: {counter}")
```

### Functions

```py title="functions.py" showLineNumbers
# Function definition
def greet(name):
    return f"Hello, {name}!"

# Lambda function
greet_lambda = lambda name: f"Hello, {name}!"

# Usage
print(greet("World"))
```

### Lists & Dictionaries

```py
users = [
    {"id": 1, "name": "Alice"},
    {"id": 2, "name": "Bob"}
]

filtered = [u for u in users if u["id"] > 1]
print(filtered)
```
</DropdownRef>

<DropdownRef type="drop" id="typescript-ref">
## TypeScript Complete Guide

TypeScript is a typed superset of JavaScript that compiles to plain JavaScript.

### Types & Interfaces

```ts title="types.ts" showLineNumbers
// Type annotations
const API_KEY: string = "your-key-here";
let counter: number = 0;

// Interface
interface User {
  id: number;
  name: string;
  email?: string; // Optional
}

// Function with types
const increment = (): void => {
  counter++;
};
```

### Functions

```ts title="functions.ts" showLineNumbers
// Typed function
function greet(name: string): string {
  return `Hello, ${name}!`;
}

// Arrow function with types
const greetArrow = (name: string): string => `Hello, ${name}!`;

// Generic function
function identity<T>(arg: T): T {
  return arg;
}
```

### Arrays & Objects

```ts
interface User {
  id: number;
  name: string;
}

const users: User[] = [
  { id: 1, name: "Alice" },
  { id: 2, name: "Bob" }
];

const filtered = users.filter((u: User) => u.id > 1);
```
</DropdownRef>

### How to Use References

**Step 1:** Define dropdown with reference pattern `:::drop <id>`

```jsx
<Dropdown defaultValue=":::drop javascript-ref" client:load>
  <DropdownOption value=":::drop javascript-ref" label="JavaScript" />
  <DropdownOption value=":::drop python-ref" label="Python" />
</Dropdown>
```

**Step 2:** Define content separately with `<DropdownRef>`

```jsx
<DropdownRef type="drop" id="javascript-ref">
  ## Your lengthy content here
  Multiple sections, code blocks, etc.
</DropdownRef>

<DropdownRef type="drop" id="python-ref">
  ## More lengthy content
  More sections, code blocks, etc.
</DropdownRef>
```

**Benefits:**
- ✅ Better organization for long content
- ✅ Easier to maintain and edit
- ✅ Cleaner dropdown definitions
- ✅ Perfect for extensive documentation

---

## ⚠️ Important Limitations

### React Components Inside Dropdown

**React components (like Tabs) may not work reliably inside dropdowns** due to how content is rendered.

<Dropdown stripCss defaultValue="tabs-inline" placeholder="Select example..." client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="tabs-inline" label="Tabs Inside (May Not Work)">
    <Tabs defaultValue="tab1" client:load>
      <TabItem value="tab1" label="Tab 1">
        ## First Tab
        This may not work properly after page reload.
      </TabItem>
      <TabItem value="tab2" label="Tab 2">
        ## Second Tab
        React interactivity might be lost.
      </TabItem>
    </Tabs>
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption value="markdown" label="Markdown (Works Fine)">
    ## Regular Markdown Content
    
    Static Markdown content works perfectly:
    
    - Lists
    - **Bold text**
    - `Code snippets`
    
    ```js
    console.log("Code blocks work great!");
    ```
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>

**What Works:**
- ✅ Markdown (text, lists, tables)
- ✅ Code blocks with syntax highlighting
- ✅ Images, links, quotes
- ✅ Static HTML content

**What May Not Work:**
- ⚠️ React Tabs component
- ⚠️ Custom React components with state
- ⚠️ Interactive elements requiring event handlers
- ⚠️ Any component using `client:load` inside dropdown

**Recommendation:** Use dropdowns primarily for static Markdown content and code examples. For complex interactive content, consider alternative layouts.

---

## 💡 Best Practices

### 1. When to Use Basic Dropdown

```jsx
// ✅ Good for short content (< 30 lines)
<Dropdown client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="opt1" label="Quick Example">
    Short content here...
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>
```

### 2. When to Use Reference Dropdown

```jsx
// ✅ Good for long content (> 30 lines)
<Dropdown client:load>
  <DropdownOption value=":::drop long-content" label="Documentation" />
</Dropdown>

<DropdownRef type="drop" id="long-content">
  Extensive documentation here...
  Multiple sections...
  Many code blocks...
</DropdownRef>
```

### 3. Provide Meaningful Labels

```jsx
// ❌ Bad
<DropdownOption value="a" label="A">

// ✅ Good
<DropdownOption value="javascript" label="🟨 JavaScript">
```

### 4. Use stripCss for Nested Content

```jsx
// ✅ Good for clean integration
<Dropdown stripCss client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="opt1" label="Clean Look">
    Content blends with page...
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>
```

---

## 📝 Quick Reference

### Basic Dropdown Template

```jsx
<Dropdown defaultValue="option1" placeholder="Select..." client:load>
  <DropdownOption value="option1" label="Option 1">
    Content for option 1
  </DropdownOption>
  <DropdownOption value="option2" label="Option 2">
    Content for option 2
  </DropdownOption>
</Dropdown>
```

### Reference Dropdown Template

```jsx
<Dropdown defaultValue=":::drop ref1" placeholder="Select..." client:load>
  <DropdownOption value=":::drop ref1" label="First" />
  <DropdownOption value=":::drop ref2" label="Second" />
</Dropdown>

<DropdownRef type="drop" id="ref1">
  Content for first option
</DropdownRef>

<DropdownRef type="drop" id="ref2">
  Content for second option
</DropdownRef>
```

---

## 🎯 Summary

- ✅ Perfect for language translations and code examples
- ✅ Full Markdown and syntax highlighting support
- ✅ Auto theme switching (light/dark)
- ✅ Reference system for organizing long content
- ✅ `stripCss` prop for clean integration
- ⚠️ Use for static content only (React components may not work)

Start using dropdowns to create dynamic, multilingual content in your Astro blog! 🚀
